---
title: Arizona
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Med School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Forms</li>\r\n<li>All State Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Privileges for the Past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>Employment for the Past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG (if an International Graduate)</li>\r\n<li>FBI Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations&nbsp; 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limits- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 total attempts- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit-USMLE (if this is your first license - None if you are licensed)</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3&nbsp;years PGY for Non-USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>SPEX Exam Required if not Board Certified and it has been more than 10 years since the USMLE/FLEX/NBME was taken.&nbsp;</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>9545 East Doubletree Ranch Rd<br />Scottsdale, AZ 85258<br />Phone:(480) 551-2700<br />Fax: (480) 551-2704</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.azmd.gov/\">www.azmd.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'Yes - Exempt if Board Certified'
step3: None
usmle: '7 if first license  None if licensed'
---

<p>With the Arizona Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 40 to 90 days for the issuance of a Arizona Med License. (application submission to the AZ Medical Board to issuance of the Physician AZ Medical License). Our firm has licensed Physicians in Arizona since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle on average 50 Arizona Med License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure an expedited process. Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the process. The fee for our AZ Med License Service is a one time payment of $599 ( practicing) or $489 (in training). Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com. Then MedLicense.com will submit the completed packet. Then the verification and follow up process begins Within 2 to 4 months after the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdq0vek80">Additional Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The AZ Med Board has an intensive process. The Board verifies the 5 years of privilege and employment, School, Training, Exam Scores, Licenses, FBI Background Checks, NPDB-HIPDB, FSMB Board Action, and AMA Profile directly. Verifications can be faxed instead of being required to be mailed. This helps expedite the process. The applications typically are approved internally and do not require a meeting to issue the license. Physicians with Malpractice Judgements and Settlements can experience significant delays. The Arizona Medical Board requires that the Patient's File and Xrays be forwarded to Arizona by the Facility / Care Center. This can be a significant problem due to HIPAA and Privacy Concerns. The State doesn't care. They are not going to move the application forward until the File and Xrays are received. Physicians with Disciplinary Actions or Significant Negatives (Arrests/etc.) will need to call the Board in advance of filing the application.</p>