---
title: Indiana
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts - Notarized Copy</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Training Diplomas - Notarized Copy</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME/NBOME)</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certification</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempts limit per Step - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>402 W. Washington St.<br />Room W072<br />Indianapolis, IN 46204<br />Phone: (317) 234-2060<br />Fax: (317) 233-4236</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.in.gov/pla/medical.htm\">www.in.gov/pla/medical.htm</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3 per step'
usmle: '10'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Indiana Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 1 to 2 1/2 months for the issuance of a Indiana Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Indiana Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Indiana since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 50 to 60 Indiana License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Indiana Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Our experience with Indiana is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 30-75 day mark. Once the files are deemed complete by the Indiana Medical Board, the medical license is at the next monthly Board Meeting. If the Physicians needs an Indiana Medical License in a hurry, Indiana will offer a Temporary License which will be issued within 2-3 weeks of filing the application. The Physician cannot have any disciplinary issues and must hold a valid USA license to receive this. The Indiana Medical Board is not a difficult board to deal with if problems exist with the application. If Indiana requires a Board Appearance by the Physician, then the licensing time can be extended.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Indiana Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Indiana Medical Board. Within 1 to 2 1/2 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqb3bpi0">Additional Indiana Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Indiana Medical Board has one of the fastest licensure processes in the USA. Even though they require a Board Meeting for approval, the process is abbreviate enough to allow for extremely fast Medical Licensing. We can obtain a temporary license in 2 to 3 weeks after filing the Medical License Application. This is the reason that Indiana is the Number One State for Military Doctors who are seeking their first medical license.</p>
<p>The Indiana Medical Board requires that a physician hold a State Level CDS Permit to prescribe after the license is issued. The CDS (Controlled Dangerous Substance) Application can be submitted at the same time as the Full Medical License Application. This is highly recommended to insure there is no delay in your ability to practice and prescribe once the Medical License is issued.</p>