---
title: Oklahoma
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>College Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG/5th Pathway</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No - 10 year rule or SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 18256<br />Oklahoma City, OK 73154<br />Phone: (405) 962-1400<br />Fax: (405) 962-1499</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.okmedicalboard.org/\">www.okmedicalboard.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3 attempts per step'
usmle: '10'
---

<p>With the Oklahoma Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Oklahoma Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Oklahoma Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Oklahoma since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 35 to 45 Oklahoma Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Oklahoma Medical Board the Oklahoma Medical License is issued. The Oklahoma Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Oklahoma Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Oklahoma Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9fp0ho0">Additional Oklahoma Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Oklahoma Medical Board is one of three Medical Boards which recognizes United Kingdom /UK Based Training (Ireland, scotland, and England based training). The other two Medical Boards are the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/maine">Maine Medical Board</a> and the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/north-dakota">North Dakota Medical Board</a>. A physician who has completed 2 years of United Kingdom based training (Internship, Residency, Fellowships) is qualified to apply for a Oklahoma Medical License as long as he or she meets the other qualifications.</p>