---
title: Ohio
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>FCVS</li>\r\n<li>Privileges and Employment (last 3 years)</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>5 attempt limit per Step - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No - 10 year rule or SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>30 E. Broad St. 3rd Floor<br />Columbus, OH 43215-6127<br />Phone: (614) 466-3934<br />Fax: (614) 728-5946</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.med.ohio.gov/\">www.med.ohio.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: ' 2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '5 attempts per step'
usmle: '10'
---

<p>With the Ohio Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 1/2 to 5 months for the issuance of a Ohio Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Ohio Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Ohio since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 50 to 65 Ohio Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Ohio Medical Board the Ohio Medical License is issued. The Ohio Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Ohio Medical Board requires that each Physician submit a set of Fingerprint cards or travel to Ohio to participate in the LiveScan process. MedLicense.com highly recommends that the Physician travel to Ohio to complete the LiveScan process instead of submitting Fingerprint Cards. Why? Fingerprint cards take 2 to 4 months to process. The license will not be issued until the report is returned to the Medical Board of Ohio by the FBI and BCI. 10 to 25% of the Cards are rejected by the FBI because the prints are smudged, low quality, or indistinguishable. If this happens then new cards have to be submitted and the process is extended another 2 to 4 months. However with the LiveScan process, the report is returned to the Medical Board of Ohio 3 days after the Scan takes place. A physician should not travel to complete the LiveScan process until the official notice to do so arrives from the Ohio Medical Board.</p>
<p>The Ohio Medical Board mandates the use of the UA and FCVS to verify a physician's Medical School and Post Graduate Training. Before the UA application can be submitted to Ohio, the physician first has to submit the FCVS application. This is because the UA application will not allow an application to be submitted to Ohio until FCVS notifies the UA system that you have a pending application with FCVS with Ohio as the designated recipient. FCVS typically takes 3 to 6 months to set up a packet for Domestic Graduates and 3 to 12 months for International Graduates. One top of this, Ohio does not offer a temporary license to those Physicians who medical license application is complete with the exception of the FCVS packet. So if Physician has a job offer, then he or she is going to be sitting idle for 3 to 8 months while waiting for FCVS to complete their task.</p>
<p>Once the application is submitted to FCVS, the Ohio Medical Board and the Applications have been requested, we have to wait 30 days before contacting FCVS. FCVS will take a month to process the request and sent out their "First Request" to the Medical School and Training Hospitals. Our goal is to push the Applications back to FCVS from the verifying sources. The "non-FCVS" Applications are typically obtained/delivered to the Ohio Medical Board within 2 to 4 weeks of the submission of the UA Application to the Ohio Board.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Ohio Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Ohio Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9fb9c80">Additional Ohio Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Ohio Medical Board is considered to be an "Adverse Medical Board" by MedLicense.com. Other Adverse Medical Boards include the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/arkansas">Arkansas Medical Board</a>, <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/delaware">Delaware Medical Board</a>, <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/mississippi">Mississippi Medical Board</a>, <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/nevada">Nevada Medical Board</a>, <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/north-carolina">North Carolina Medical Board</a>, and <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/texas">Texas Medical Board</a>. Our definition of an "Adverse Medical Board" is a Medical Board which takes makes a big deal out of innocent or small issues. With the Ohio Medical Board, if a physician has any type of arrest or other negative information, the Medical Board refers the application to the Attorney Generals office for investigation. The general attitude of the Board is that a Physician is guilty until proven innocent.</p>