---
title: Pennsylvania
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Domestic Grads - PGY 1,2,</li>\r\n<li>International Grads PGY 1,2,3</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG/5th Pathway</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>State and National Exam Scores</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>No year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 2649<br />Harrisburg, PA 17105-2649<br />Phone: (717) 787-2381<br />Fax: (717) 787-7769</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.dos.pa.gov/ProfessionalLicensing/BoardsCommissions/Medicine/Pages/default.aspx\">http://www.dos.pa.gov/ProfessionalLicensing/BoardsCommissions/Medicine</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: ' None'
usmle: None
---

<p>With the Pennsylvania Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Pennsylvania Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Pennsylvania Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Pennsylvania since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 45 to 55 Pennsylvania Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Pennsylvania Medical Board the Pennsylvania Medical License is issued. The Pennsylvania Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Pennsylvania Medical Board is the cheapest Medical Board to apply to. Domestic Graduates are charged $35.00. International Graduates are charged $85.00 by PA Medical Board. For Domestic Graduates, the process is one of the more expedited in the USA. Boards that do not verify employment, privileges, or malpractice will have a more expedited process. Pennsylvania is one such Medical Board.</p>
<p>International Graduates will have a longer process due to the Medical School Requirements. Pennsylvania requires that the School complete the Pennsylvania form, submit certified copies of the Medical School Transcripts, and Certify a copy of the Physician's Diploma. California is the only other Medical Board which requires a Diploma Certification.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Pennsylvania Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Pennsylvania Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9gr9ns0">Additional Pennsylvania Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>Once the Pennsylvania Medical Board receives all required verifications, the application is submitted to a Quality Assurance Review and then the license is issued 1 to 2 weeks after this. If their are issues which need to be addressed with the Pennsylvania Medical License then at the completion of the review the Physician will be asked to provide additional information or come to the PA Medical Board meeting to answer questions concerning his/her Medical License Application. Pennsylvania is one of a hand full of Medical Boards which do not require attempt limits or year limits on the USMLE.</p>
<p>The Pennsylvania Medical Board is considered an "Adverse Medical Board" by the management of MedLicense.com. Physicians with significant issues should carefully weigh the cost before applying to the Pennsylvania Medical Board.</p>