---
title: Iowa
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Verifications</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certification</li>\r\n<li>Privileges Hospital (past 5 years)</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>6 attempts limit on Steps 1 and 2 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>3 attempts limit on Step 3 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>3 years of Approved PGT if outside Step Limits for USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE, None if Board Certified</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>400 SW 8th St., Suite C<br />Des Moines, IA 50309<br />Phone: (515) 242-3268<br />Fax: (515) 242-5908</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.medicalboard.iowa.gov/\">www.medicalboard.iowa.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '6-step 1&2  3-step 3  *3 yrs of approved PGT required if outside of attempt limits'
usmle: '10 (no year limit if Board Certified)'
---

<p>With the Iowa Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Iowa Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Iowa Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Iowa since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 30 to 40 Iowa License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Iowa Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Our experience with Iowa is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 60-115 day mark Once the files are deemed complete by the Iowa Medical Board, the Iowa Medical License is typically issued within 10 to 20 days. The Iowa Medical Board is a difficult board to deal with if problems exist with the application. If Medical Board does not require a Board Appearance by the Physician.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Iowa Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Iowa Medical Board. Within 2 to 3 1/2 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqcu70o0">Additional Iowa Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The biggest issue with the Iowa Medical Board is there 90 day time limit to complete an application. Typically this is not an issue for most Physicians. Where it becomes an issue is if there are Foreign Medical Schools or Training Hospitals that are required to be verified. International Institutions take longer to process the requests. The mail system from overseas is unreliable and often they are lost in transit. The Iowa Medical Board will grant an extension if requested to their artificial time limit.</p>
<p>The Iowa Medical Board Staff are helpful and professional. Updates are easy to obtain. They are a pleasure to work with. It is because of their professionalism and accessibility that allows for the Iowa Medical License to be issued before the 90 day mark (which is the average medical license time frame).</p>