---
title: Arizona
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>School Transcripts/ Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Forms</li>\r\n<li>All State Med Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>COMLEX/NBOME Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Privileges for the Past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>Employment for the Past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>AOA Profile</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limits - NBOME</li>\r\n<li>No year limit - NBOME</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY - USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>SPEX Exam Required if not Board Certified</li>\r\n<li>AOA Rotating Internship not Required</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>9535 East Doubletree Ranch Rd<br />Scottsdale, AZ 85258<br />Phone: (480) 657-7703<br />Fax: (480) 657-7715</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.azdo.gov/\">www.azdo.gov</a></p>"
aoapgt: '1 year AOA/AMA PGT'
required: 'AOA or AMA PGT Required'
enabled: true
visible: false
---

<p>With our Arizona Osteo Medical License Service, MedLicense.com is averaging 60 to 110 days for the issuance of a Arizona Osteopathic Medical License (Submission to Issuance). Our firm has licensed Physicians in Arizona since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle on average 50 Arizona License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Arizona Osteopathic Med Board to insure an expedited process. Both USA and Foreign Graduates can benefit from our services to move the arduous process through within a time period that will meet their needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum with MedLicense.com. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $599 (if you are practicing) or $489 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Arizona Osteopathic Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and the Board. Within 2 to 4 months the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cec28p230">Additional Arizona Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Arizona Osteopathic Medical Board has a streamlined, quick process. The State verifies the NPDB-HIPDB and FSMB Board Action directly. Many verifications can be faxed to the Arizona Osteopathic Medical Board instead of being mailed. This helps expedite the process. It has a low Mail Loss Rate (MLR). Faxes and mail are rarely lost and as such reduces the delays cause by re-requesting required primary source items. The applications typically are approved internally and do not require a meeting to issue the license.</p>