---
title: Nevada
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form (International Schools Only)</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>FBI Fingerprint Clearance</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Verification if there are Claims</li>\r\n<li>Possible Privilege Verifications - 10 years</li>\r\n<li>ABMS Board Certification</li>\r\n<li>Jurisprudence Examination</li>\r\n<li>Homeland Security/Bioterrorism CME</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li></li>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit on each Step of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>9 attempts limit on all Steps of the USMLE Combined</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit on the USMLE or 10 years if Md/PhD</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for USA Grads -3 years PGY for International Grads -10 year rule or SPEX required -exempt if Board Certified -State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 7238<br />Reno, NV 89510<br />Phone: (775) 688-2559<br />Fax: (775) 688-2321</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://medboard.nv.gov/\">www.medboard.nv.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '3 years'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'Yes - Exempt if Board Certified'
step3: '9 total attempts for all steps combined  Step 3 in 3 attempts'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
---

<p>With the Nevada Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Nevada Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Nevada Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Nevada since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 30 to 45 Nevada License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Nevada Medical Board the Nevada Medical License is issued. The Nevada Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Nevada Medical Board has some ridiculous requirements concerning their process. The Nevada Medical Board requires 100% accuracy on every entry within the application. If you do not have the exact start date and end dates, your exact exam scores, etc. the application will be sent back and forth between you and the Board 2-6 times until every primary source has submitted their verifications to the Board. You can only hope to minimize the back and forth. The original application has to be returned back to the Nevada Medical Board each time or it will delay the process. In the event that you have a malpractice claim at any point in your training or practice history, Nevada will require that each malpractice carrier from graduation of Medical School to present verify your coverage and claim history. This is actually the most difficult obstacle to overcome with the typical Nevada Application process. Often times the Nevada Medical Board will ask for explanations and details to issues that are not issues. Nevada likes to go on fishing expeditions to try to uncover issues in a physician's background. The Analyst at Nevada are under a lot of pressure from the Board Management to present an application to the Board that is 100% precise with no hidden issues.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Nevada Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Nevada Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9b2l1t0">Additional Nevada Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Nevada Medical Board has one of the toughest processes for Physicians to wade through. "Wade through" is an appropiate description. It is not difficult because the verification load is aggrevious (with the exemption of their Malpractice Verification Requirements). It is a difficult process because the Nevada Board has chosen to make it that way. Often we are asked, "Is the Nevada Medical Board discriminating against me? Is the Nevada Medical Board trying to keep me from getting my license?" Our answer is "No, they do this to every one".</p>
<p>To make a excruiting process even more difficult, the Nevada Medical Board puts an artificial 6 month time limit on the application. If you do not get everything into the Board within 6 months of the filing date, then everything starts over from scratch including the $1075/$1475.00 Medical Board Fee.</p>