---
title: Texas
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form</li>\r\n<li>Employment and Privileges for the past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Internships/Residencies/Fellowships within past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG / 5th Pathway</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Insurance Verifications</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit - All Steps of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>10 year rule - SPEX/ABMS</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 2018<br />Austin, TX 78701<br />Phone: (512) 305-7010<br />Fax: (512) 305-7051</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.tmb.state.tx.us/\">www.tmb.state.tx.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'Yes'
step3: '3 attempts per step'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Texas Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 3 to 5 1/2 months for the issuance of a Texas Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Texas Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Texas since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 125 to 150 Texas Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Texas Medical Board the Texas Medical License is issued. The Texas Medical Board will not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Texas Medical Board has one of the most difficult State Medical License processes in the USA. It is a paradox though because the verification work load is light in comparison to many other Medical Boards. What the Texas Medical Board lacks in primary source verification requirements, it makes up for in Bureaucracy. With Texas, unlike other State Medical Boards, there are two separate processes which have to be cleared. The first is the CIC-Screen process. Once an application is submitted to the Texas Medical Board, the verifying sources are then requested, pursued, and delivered to the Texas Medical Board. After receiving the required verifications, Fingerprint Cards, and Jurisprudence Examination, the application is then forwarded to the Licensure Department of the Texas Medical Board. The time it takes for an application to clear CIC-Screen typically runs 45 to 60 days. Unfortunately, CIC-Screen does not review the Applications for quality. As such many Applications are delivered to the Licensure Department of Texas without notifying the physician that there are problems with the verifications. What makes Texas much less efficient in processing applications is the fact that CIC-Screen does not review the verifications and application for issues, errors, or omissions. No other Medical Board has this second step. States which have a much higher verification requirement (i.e. Arizona Medical Board, Missouri Medical Board, Virginia Medical Board, etc) can see Medical Licenses issued in 30 to 60 days from the submission of the application to the issuance of the license. The Texas Medical Board simply cannot issue a license within that time frame due to the 2 tiered review.</p>
<p>Once the Licensure Department receives the application from CIC-Screen, the "Licensure Investigator" reviews the application and Applications. Typically omissions and errors are found in the Applications received and the application is then put on hold until the physician is able to have resubmitted the Applications which were rejected, and request for the first time any Applications, statements, and explanations which are needed to satisfy the "Licensure Investigator's" requests. Once all items have been received by to fulfill the requests of the Licensure Investigator, the application is then presented to the Full Medical Board at the next meeting. This happens every two months. A Temporary License is available at this point.</p>
<p>Texas is considered an "Adverse Board". An Adverse Board is a Medical Board that tends to obsess over negative issues. A physician is typically guilty until proven innocent with this type of Medical Board. Issues which other Boards will not have a problem with, Texas tends to be more aggressive with. Malpractice typically is not considered adverse by Medical Boards. Probations, Board Actions, Arrests, and Disciplinary Actions are what we consider to be Adverse Actions.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Texas Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Texas Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9lpi660">Additional Texas Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Texas Medical Board has taken an easy, straight forward process and turned it upside down on its' head. If you wanted to set up a process that purposefully delays the application, then the Texas Process would be the one that you would use as a pattern. The double review is the main culprit. The First Review provides no vetting of the verifications. If a mistake is made then you will not find out about it until 3-4 months after the application is filed. The Texas Medical Board will also hold up the process if malpractice documents are unobtainable. We have actually seen Texas Medical Board refuse to issue a license to a physician because he could not locate the court records for a dismissed malpractice claim made against him 30 years prior to the application. Had he not reported the frivulous claim, he would of been issued quickly. But because He was honest the Texas Medical Board expired his application over red tape. In the past we have found that Texas's Bark is worse then its' bite. We have seen physicians issued licenses who were caught lying on the application concerning DUI's and similar issues. The Texas Medical Board required that they appear at a Board Meeting only to issue the license.</p>