---
title: Arkansas
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Med School Transcripts / Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowships (Non-USA included)</li>\r\n<li>All State Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Privilege Hospitals - All since Med School</li>\r\n<li>Employment - All since Med School</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Board Action Report</li>\r\n<li>Current Malpractice Carrier</li>\r\n<li>Military Status (If ever served in Military)</li>\r\n<li>Board Certification</li>\r\n<li>Clinical Clerkships (Non-USA included)</li>\r\n<li>1 Physician Reference</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG (if an International Graduate)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit per Step - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit-USMLE (10 years for MD/PhD)</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for Non-USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year Rule - No SPEX Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>Victory Bldg.<br />1401 West Capitol Avenue, Suite 340<br />Little Rock, AR 72201<br />Phone (501) 296-1802<br />Fax (501) 296-1805</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.armedicalboard.org/\">www.armedicalboard.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3 attempts per step'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
---

<p>MedLicense.com's Arkansas Medical License Service is averaging&nbsp;3 to&nbsp;6 months from the submission of an application to the AR Medical Board to the issuance of the License. Under some circumstances, at the Director's discretion, the AR Medical Board can issue a temporary license. The AR Medical Board has an extensive verification processes in the USA. The AR Med Board can issue licenses without requiring the application to go before a Meeting. Our firm has licensed Physicians in AR since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle on average 20 Arkansas License Applications. Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the majority. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the State. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and the Arkansas Medical Board. Within 3 to 6 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdq1hcdg0">Additional Arkansas Medical License Service Information:</h2>
<p>Arkansas has made some significant changes since the beginning of 2011. Changes for the better. Most Physicians can be issued without attending a mandatory Meeting. In the past a trip to Little Rock was required.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Some verifications can be faxed to the AR Med Board. In the past they had to be mailed. We found the approval process by Arkansas to be arbitrary. Now there seems to be a standardized process by which licenses are issued on the basic educational and training merits of the Physician. Arkansas is no longer the most difficult to apply to. Their process is extensive but not worse than Massachusetts.</p>