---
title: 'North Carolina'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form&nbsp;</li>\r\n<li>All PGY Training</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>National or State Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report or Fifth Pathway (exam chart)</li>\r\n<li>FCVS required if a packet has been established</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE or 10 years if (Md/Phd)</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>Yes - 10 year rule or SPEX or 150 CME hrs</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 20007<br />Raleigh, NC 27619<br />Phone: (919) 326-1100<br />Fax (919) 326-1131</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.ncmedboard.org/\">www.ncmedboard.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: ' 3 years'
abms: 'Yes - Exempt-150 CME Hrs 3yrs'
step3: '3 attempts per step'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
visible: false
---

<p>With the North Carolina Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 45 to 90 days for the issuance of a North Carolina Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician North Carolina Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in North Carolina since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 30 to 40 North Carolina Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the North Carolina Medical Board the North Carolina Medical License is issued. The North Carolina Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>North Carolina ranks as one of the more difficult State Medical Boards. The North Carolina Board Members can be quite arbitrary in their decisions. Recently we had a physician contact our office to see if we could help with his North Carolina application. He explained that he was a Radiologist who was applying to 15 different Medical Boards. A few years ago the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/florida">Florida Medical Board</a> issued an administrative fine of $1,000.00 to him when applied for a license to practice medicine. The fine is quite typical of Florida's process if a mistake is made on the application. At the time the fine was issued they told him it was not disciplinary in nature. When he applied to the 15 Medical Boards he forgot to disclose this in part because of what he was told by the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/florida">Florida Medical Board</a>. Of the 15 Boards, which all knew about this after the Florida License certification was received, only North Carolina refused to issue the license. The Board Members of the North Carolina Medical Board, met behind closed doors and arbitrarily denied him the license. His attorney and the director of the Board could not believe their decision. As with many Southern Medical Boards, the decision process over whether to issue a license or not can be based on the personality of the individual board members and not on the facts of the Physician's credentials.</p>
<p>The North Carolina Medical Board also has a SPEX Examination requirement for Physicians who have not taken a Board Examination or been Certified/Re-Certified by a Speciality Board within the past 10 years. They do allow the Physician to opt out of the SPEX Examination if they can provide proof of 150 hours of CME's within the past 36 month.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the North Carolina Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and North Carolina Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9e9kah0">Additional North Carolina Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The North Carolina Medical Board is considered to be an "Adverse Medical Board" by MedLicense.com. Innocent Ommissions can result in arbitrary denials. Once we had a physician apply to do pro-bono work in the North Carolina Mountains at a free clinic to the poor residents of the community. He had been sued for malpractice in Georgia and the attorney filed a complaint with the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/georgia">Georgia Medical Board</a> in an attempt to force the physician into settling. The <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/georgia">Georgia Medical Board</a> dismissed the complaint as frivolous. The physician won the malpractice suit. He reported the malpractice suit to Georgia but forgot the frivolous Board Complaint. The North Carolina Medical Board treated him as if he was a common criminal and was going to vote to deny his application. He withdrew the application under the advisement of his attorney. We have seen physicians purposefully withhold information and this was not the case with our client. To top it off, the questions which North Carolina provides to be answered are ambigious and can be interpreted to mean something besides the intent of the Board. This is just one example of the general attitude of the North Carolina Medical Board. Before you proceed with North Carolina, be sure that any negative issue in your background is provided to the North Carolina Medical Board.</p>