---
title: 'New Hampshire'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>FCVS Packet</li>\r\n<li>4 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>No year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>Philbrook Building<br />121 S. Fruit Street, Suite 301<br />Concord, NH 03301-2412<br />Phone: (603) 271-1203<br />Fax: (603) 271-6702</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.nh.gov/medicine\">www.state.nh.us/medicine</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: Np
step3: '3'
usmle: none
---

<p>With the New Hampshire Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 5 1/2 months for the issuance of a New Hampshire Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician New Hampshire Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in New Hampshire since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 15 to 25 New Hampshire License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the New Hampshire Medical Board the New Hampshire Medical License is issued. The New Hampshire Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The New Hampshire Medical Board has mandated the use of FCVS for all physicians. If the physician does not have a packet in place with FCVS, then the licensure process for the New Hampshire Medical License can take 3 to 5 1/2 months for most applicants. To ease the pain of the longer process, the New Hampshire Medical Board will provide a "True" Temporary license. To obtain the temporary, the physician just as to verify his licenses and provide some notarized photocopies of his diplomas. The temporary will allow the Physician to practice until the full active license is ready to be issued.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the New Hampshire Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and New Hampshire Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9cf1rh0">Additional New Hampshire Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>Applications with the New Hampshire Medical Board are processed in a quick and efficient manner by the New Hampshire Medical Board. Mail Loss is not an issue with the New Hampshire Medical Board. The New Hampshire Medical License (Temporary) is typically issued after the 15 to 45 day mark. The staff at New Hampshire are accessible and helpful. New Hampshire has a stream lined and straight forward process. Two of the four physician references need to be from a Department Head or Director level Physician at a hospital where privileges are held.</p>