---
title: Kentucky
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Completed FCVS Packet</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>Employment and Privileges for past 10 years</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Disciplinary Board Action Report</li>\r\n<li>HIV CME (2 hours - approved KY Vendor)</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations&nbsp; 75% +</li>\r\n<li>4 attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>no year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement&nbsp;</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>Hurstbourne Office Park<br />310 Whittington Parkway, Suite 1B<br />Louisville, KY 40222<br />Phone: (502) 429-7150<br />Fax: (502) 429-7158</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.kbml.ky.gov/\">kbml.ky.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '4 per step'
usmle: None
---

<p>With the Kentucky Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 5 months for the issuance of a Kentucky Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Kentucky Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Kentucky since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 30 Kentucky License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Kentucky Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Our experience with Kentucky is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 60 - 150 day mark. Once the files are deemed complete by the Kentucky Medical Board the Kentucky Medical License is typically issued within a week. The Kentucky Medical Board is not a difficult board to deal with if problems exist with the application. When the Kentucky Medical License is complete, a Board Appearance is usually not required.</p>
<p>The Kentucky Medical Board process is one of the more lengthy medical licensure processes in the USA. Unlike the majority of the Medical Boards, Kentucky mandates the use of FCVS for all physicians. For a physician who does not have a FCVS packet in place, a new packet will take 2 to 5 months to complete for Domestic Graduates. International Graduates typically take 3 to 9 months to complete the FCVS process due to the way that FCVS verifies International Medical Schools (through the ECFMG). FCVS is just one part of the puzzle for the Kentucky Medical Board.(see the matrix below).</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Kentucky Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Kentucky Medical Board. Within 2 1/2 to 4 1/2 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqefla30">Additional Kentucky Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Kentucky Medical Board is not considered to be an "Adverse Medical Board". An Adverse Medical Board is one which takes an accusatory tone with the physician for issues which are non-issues. An example of an Adverse Medical Board is the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/texas">Texas Medical Board</a> and the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/north-carolina">North Carolina Medical Board</a>.</p>
<p>A temporary Kentucky Medical License is available is no negatives are present in the Physician's application. The Temporary is only available once all Applications and items are received (with the exception of the Background Check from the FBI).</p>