---
title: Maryland
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>OPI/TOEFL (If non-English Medical School)</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>4 attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE (waiver possible)</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>10 year rule - SPEX required (Exempt if Board Certified)</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 2571<br />Baltimore, MD 21215<br />Phone: (410) 764-4777<br />Fax: (410) 358-2252</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.mbp.state.md.us/\">www.mbp.state.md.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'Yes - Exempt if Board Certified'
step3: '4'
usmle: '10'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Maryland Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Maryland Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Maryland Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Maryland since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 25 to 35 Maryland License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Maryland Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Maryland Medical Board the Maryland Medical License is issued. The Maryland Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Maryland Medical Board has a strange English Certification requirement for International Medical Schools. If you school taught the Physician in a language other than English then the Physician will have to take the OPI or TOEFL examination. Other than this the process is very abbreviated when compared to other Medical Boards. Only the core credentials are verified. No employment, privileges, or references are required.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majOPIty of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Maryland Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Maryland Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqgi98f0">Additional Maryland Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Maryland Medical Board does not offer a Temporary Maryland Medical License. Typically it is not needed unless the physician is a foreign medical graduate. International Graduates are required to have their school certify that the courses were taught in English. If they were not then the Physician will have to take and pass the OPI or the TOEFL Examination. Physicians who have taken the TOEFL in the past will be required to take it again. There are no exemptions to this requirement. The OPI is administered at the Maryland Medical Board, whereas the TOEFL can be taken at any approved facility that is offering it.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqgl2bv1">Maryland, District of Columbia, and Virginia Package:</h2>
<p>Our physicians who license with the Maryland Medical Board typically will license with the Virgina Medical Board and the District of Columbia Medical Board at the same time due to the proximity of both to Maryland. We offer a package deal for these three States together. The Rate for the three is $1350.00 instead of the normal rate of $1547.00.</p>