---
title: Colorado
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Med School Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Forms</li>\r\n<li>All Employment - 10 years</li>\r\n<li>All Privileges - 10 years</li>\r\n<li>All State Med Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>All National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certification</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>AMA Profile</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Disciplinary Action Report</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations&nbsp; 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limits- USMLE Step 3</li>\r\n<li>7 or 10 year(if Md/PhD) limit-USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for Non-USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>Suite 1300<br />Denver, CO 80202<br />Phone (303) 894-7690<br />Fax (303) 894-7692</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.colorado.gov/dora/Medical_Board\">www.dora.state.co.us/medical</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: None
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
---

<p>Our Colorado Medical License Service can be quite expeditd if a physician qualifies for the Expedited License. If the applicant does not, then licensure process will be typical of most States. The Colorado Medical Board processes application quickly. After submitting the Colorado Medical License Application, the Colorado Medical Board will process and notify the physician about the deficiencies necessary to complete the application within a couple of weeks. The process with Colorado is typical. Colorado provides access to the licensure analysts. This allows quick confirmations of receipt of the required CO Med Board verifications. The staff is helpful and pleasant to work with. Mail loss typically is not a problem with the CO Medical Board. This also assists in providing for an expedited process.</p>
<p>For Physicians with negative information, the State will assign the file to the senior analyst at the Board. The Colorado Med Board will fully review and research any negative issue. (Malpractice Claims are not considered "negative"). The application will not move forward until all requested information is received by the Board. We have observed that this State is reasonable and fair with applicants when issues are present. The CO Medical Board utilizes the California Black List concerning approved and unapproved Med Schools. If a Physician is Certified there is the potential of obtaining a waiver if a personal appearance if requested.</p>
<p>MedLicense.com is experiencing licensure times of 2 to 4 months for Colorado for most Physicians.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdq67j5k1">Additional Colorado Medical Board Licensing Service Information:</h2>
<p>The Colorado Med Board does offer an Expedited Endorsement Medical License if the Physician qualifies. To qualify the physician has to have been in practice for 2 years AND 5 of 7 years preceding the application(PGY not included). If the applicant qualifies, then only the Physicians Exam Scores, Current License Verifications, and a couple of Background Checks are required. For non-Expedited Applications, Of the licensing requirements of Colorado, the most difficult to overcome is the verification of employment and privileges for the past 10 years. A number of Med Boards require verification of this type to the 10 year mark or beyond. Colorado eases this issue by allowing the various programs and employers to provide verification letters on their letter head and do not require a Form to be used. Each additional step which is required adds to the potential for error. This State is one of a few that requires that you have Malpractice Insurance in place before you are allowed to practice in the State. So if you are applying for a Physician License, then you need to shop around for coverage before the license is issued.</p>