---
title: Montana
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>3 Physician References</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 200513<br />Helena, MT 59620<br />Phone: (406) 841-2360<br />Fax: (406) 841-2305</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://boards.bsd.dli.mt.gov/med\">http://bsd.dli.mt.gov/license/bsd_boards/med_board/board_page.asp</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Montana Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Montana Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Montana Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Montana since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 15 to 25 Montana License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Montana Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Montana Medical Board the Montana Medical License is issued. The Montana Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Montana Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Montana Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9a7mn20">Additional Montana Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>Applications with the Montana Medical Board are processed in a quick and efficient manner by the Montana Medical Board. Mail Loss is not an issue with the Montana Medical Board. The Montana Medical License is typically issued after the 60 day mark. The staff at Montana are accessible and helpful. Montana has a stream lined and straight forward process.</p>