---
title: Maine
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Completed FCVS Packet</li>\r\n<li>All Employment and Privileges</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>Maine Medical Examination (required)</li>\r\n<li>Board Certification from United Kingdom (if trained in UK)</li>\r\n<li>All State, National, Canadian, and United Kingdom Exams</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE (waiver possible)</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>GMC Examination Excepted (if Trained in United Kingdom)</li>\r\n<li>Board Certification required by GMC (if Trained in United Kingdom)</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certificate required for all International Graduates</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads if graduated before 07/2004</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for USA Grads if graduated on or after 07/2004</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>137 State House Station<br />Augusta, ME 04333<br />Phone: (207) 287-3601<br />Fax: (207) 287-6590</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.maine.gov/md/\">www.maine.gov/md</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year before 07/2004; 2 years after 07/2004'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: NA
step3: '3  *Waiver required if more than 3'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Maine Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 3 to 8 months for the issuance of a Maine Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Maine Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Maine since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 30 Maine License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Maine Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Maine Medical Board the Maine Medical License is issued. The Maine Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Maine Medical Board is one of 3 Medical Boards (Oklahoma Medical Board and North Dakota Medical Board) which accepts United Kingdom Internships/Residencies/Fellowships in place of USA or Canadian based training. There are some additional requirements which need to be validated by the Maine Medical Board if the Physician is using United Kingdom (England, Scotland, or Ireland) based training to meet the minimum requirements of the Maine Medical Board.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Maine Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Maine Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqg40e00">Additional Maine Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Maine Medical Board does offer a temporary medical license to those physicians who will request it. This information is not provided in the Application Instructions or Maine Medical Board website. To obtain it the applicant must attach a note/letter to the application requesting one. The temporary medical license is good for 6 months while the full license is being considered</p>