---
title: Tennessee
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician Reference Letters</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Internships/Residencies/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG / 5th Pathway</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit - Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule - No SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>665 Mainstream Drive<br />Nashville, TN 37243<br />Phone: (615) 532-4384<br />Fax: (615) 253-4484</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.tn.gov/health\">health.state.tn.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7 (waived if licensed in 3 States)'
---

<p>With the Tennessee Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Tennessee Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Tennessee Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Tennessee since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 30 to 35 Tennessee Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Tennessee Medical Board the Medical License is issued. The Tennessee Medical Board will not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Tennessee only communicates via their "blue" Letter. This letter is suppose to be sent out once a week but actually a Physician might get 2 or 3 during the process. Communication is key to the process and as such we usually have to make several attempts per week to get someone on the line at Tennessee who will provide a list of what Applications remain outstanding.</p>
<p>Tennessee is considered an "Adverse Board". An Adverse Board is a Medical Board that tends to obsess over negative issues. A physician is typically guilty until proven innocent with this type of Medical Board. Issues which other Boards will not have a problem with, Tennessee tends to be more aggressive with. Malpractice typically is not considered adverse by Medical Boards. Probations, Board Actions, Arrests, and Disciplinary Actions are what we consider to be Adverse Actions.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Tennessee Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Tennessee Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9lbl2v0">Additional Tennessee Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Tennessee Medical Board requires that each Physician submit a set of Fingerprint cards or travel to Tennessee to participate in the LiveScan process. MedLicense.com highly recommends that the Physician travel to Tennessee to complete the LiveScan process instead of submitting Fingerprint Cards. Why? Fingerprint cards take 2 to 3 months to process. The license will not be issued until the report is returned to the Medical Board of Tennessee by the FBI. 25% of the Cards are rejected by the FBI because the prints are smudged, low quality, or indistinguishable. If this happens then new cards have to be submitted and the process is extended another 2 to 3 months. However with the LiveScan process, the report is returned to the Medical Board of Tennessee 3 days after the Scan takes place. We have handled 400 Tennessee Applications since 2003 and not one has been rejected or required to be re-submitted.</p>