---
title: 'New Mexico'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship, Residency, and Fellowship verifications</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>3 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>Employment and Privileges past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Verification past 3 years</li>\r\n<li>National or State Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>6 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE or 10 years if (Md/Phd)</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>2055 S. Pacheco Street<br />Building 400<br />Santa Fe, NM 87505<br />Phone: (505) 476-7220<br />Fax: (505) 476-7237</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.nmmb.state.nm.us/\">www.nmmb.state.nm.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '6'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
---

<p>With the New Mexico Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a New Mexico Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician New Mexico Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in New Mexico since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 35 New Mexico License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the New Mexico Medical Board the New Mexico Medica License is issued. The New Mexico Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the New Mexico Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and New Mexico Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9d46f20">Additional New Mexico Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The New Mexico Medical Board will accept applications from physicians who have taken the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/puerto-rico">Puerto Rico Medical Board</a> Examination if they are Board Certified by an ABMS Board. We were informed of this on 2/15/2012 by the New Mexico Medical Board.</p>