---
title: 'North Dakota'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form</li>\r\n<li>All PGY Training (including UK Training)</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>National or State Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report or Fifth Pathway (exam chart)</li>\r\n<li>Privilege Verifications (past 3 years)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No - 10 year rule or SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>City Center Plaza<br />418 E. Broadway Avenue, Suite 12<br />Bismarck, ND 58501<br />Phone: (701) 328-6500<br />Fax: (701) 328-6505</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.ndbom.org/\">www.ndbomex.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: ' 3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3 attempts per step'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the North Dakota Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 45 to 90 days for the issuance of a North Dakota Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician North Dakota Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in North Dakota since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 30 North Dakota Medica License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the North Dakota Medical Board the North Dakota Medical License is issued. The North Dakota Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the North Dakota Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and North Dakota Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9etp7f0">Additional North Dakota Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The North Dakota Medical Board is one of three States that recognizes United Kingdom (England, Scotland, and Ireland) Based Training (Internships, Residency, and Fellowships). The other two State Medical Boards are the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/maine">Maine Medical Board</a> and the <a href="../../licensure-information/state-licensure-requirements/oklahoma">Oklahoma Medical Board</a>. A United Kingdom trained physician will be required to have the full USMLE Sequence and ECFMG in place to qualify for a North Dakota Medical License.</p>