---
title: Alaska
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>School Transcripts &amp; Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Forms</li>\r\n<li>All State Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>Examination Scores</li>\r\n<li>Privilege Hospitals - 5 years prior to the application</li>\r\n<li>DEA</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Board Action Report</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG (if an International Graduate)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations&nbsp; 75% +</li>\r\n<li>2&nbsp;attempt limit per Step -&nbsp;USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 total attempts- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit-USMLE&nbsp;(10 years for MD/PhD)</li>\r\n<li>2&nbsp;year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3&nbsp;years PGY for Non-USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year Rule - No SPEX Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>550 West Seventh Ave., Suite 1500<br />Anchorage, AK 99501<br />Phone:(907) 269-8163<br />Fax:(907) 269-8196</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.commerce.alaska.gov/web/cbpl/ProfessionalLicensing/StateMedicalBoard.aspx\">www.commerce.state.ak.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '2 attempts per step'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Alaska Medical Board, MedLicense.com's Alaska Medical License Service is averaging&nbsp;3 to&nbsp;6 months for an Medical License. The AK Medical Board does offer a temporary physician license which is made available upon the acknowledgement that the application is complete. The temporary Physician license will allow the Physician to practice until the Full Board meets at its' quarterly meeting to issue the AK License. Our firm has licensed Physicians with the AK Med Board since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle on average&nbsp;40 Applications. Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our Alaska Medical License Service process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement is kept to a minimum. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $599 (practicing) or $489 (in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com. Include all the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Board. Then the verification process begins. All required follow up with the third parties and Alaska Physician Board will move forward. Within 2 to 3 1/2 months the temporary Alaska Physician license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdps82gf0">Additional Alaska Medical License Service Information:</h2>
<p>The licensure process with Alaska should be typical to most other Boards. The Alaska Medical Board covers the basic timeline process as do most State Boards. Med School, Training Hospitals, Exam Scores, the typical back ground checks, and Privilege History are verified. However, unfortunately the State Board, in the experience of our firm, has had significant issues with keeping track of verifications which arrive at the Alaska Med Board. This might not seem like a problem but when you consider that many verifications take weeks to obtain, it can significantly delay the application to have to request and re-request verifications thus further delaying the process. We recommend using Fedex for all verifications.</p>