---
title: Florida
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts, Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Form</li>\r\n<li>Current Privileges</li>\r\n<li>The DataBank Report</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>All National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Board Action Report</li>\r\n<li>AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>FBI Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limit - NBOME</li>\r\n<li>No year limit - NBOME</li>\r\n<li>Required AOA Internship</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n<li>Florida does not accept the Puerto Rico Licensure Exam</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>4052 Bald Cypress Way<br />BIN C06<br />Phone: (850) 245-4161<br />Fax: (850) 921-6184</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://floridasosteopathicmedicine.gov/\">www.floridasosteopathicmedicine.gov </a></p>"
aoapgt: '1 year AOA PGT'
required: 'AOA PGT Required'
enabled: true
visible: false
---

<p>MedLicense.com is average 2 to 3 1/2 months with Florida Osteopathic Medical Board applications. You have probably heard horror stories concerning the Med Board of Florida. Some are true. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Florida since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 120 to 150 Florida Osteopathic Medical License Applications. Our experience with Florida is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 45 day threshold if the Background Checks(FDLE and FBI) Allow. With both USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (practicing) or $469 (in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Florida Osteopathic Med Board. Then the vertification process begins as well as follow up with the third parties - Florida Osteo Medical Board. Within 2 to 3 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cec2t2f60">Additional Florida Osteo Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>Licensure typically runs 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months for most Osteopathic Physicians. This estimated time will increase if the physician has adverse issue in his or her background or if he or she did not complete an AOA Approved Internship.</p>