---
title: Massachusetts
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Clinical Forms (if International)</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Insurance Verifications - past 10 years</li>\r\n<li>Employment / Privileges - past 2 years</li>\r\n<li>1 Physician Reference</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>4 attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE (waiver possible)</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>10 year rule - SPEX required (Exempt if Board Certified)</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>200 Harvard Mill Square, Suite 330<br />Wakefield, MA 01880<br />Phone: (781) 876-8200<br />Fax: (781) 876-8384</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://medicalrecruiting.com/mass-med-board/\">www.massmedboard.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'Yes'
step3: '6'
usmle: 7+
---

<p>With the Massachusetts Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 3.5 to 12 months for the issuance of a Massachusetts Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Massachusetts Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Massachusetts since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 25 to 35 Massachusetts License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Massachusetts Medical Board does not lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Massachusetts Medical Board the Massachusetts Medical License is issued. The Massachusetts Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>With the Massachusetts Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 3.5 to 12 months for the issuance of a Massachusetts Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Massachusetts Medical License.</p>
<p>The Massachusetts Medical Board has a reputation for being one of the most difficult State Medical Boards in which to obtain a license. There is good cause for this but I believe that this reputation is overstated. First we will cover the process of licensing with the Massachusetts Medical Board.The process with Massachusetts Medical Board is unique in a couple of ways. First is the issue concerning communication with the Medical Board. The Medical Board does not communicate with any one but the physician. Communication is key in licensure. If you do not know what still remains as outstanding, then you cannot follow up with the required institutions to have Applications resubmitted. As such MedLicense.com has designed a system which allows us to communicate with Medical Board in keeping with the requirements of their law.</p>
<p>The second unique issue is their grievous Malpractice certification requirement. Irregardless of a physician's past Malpractice History, each physician has to have verified directly to the Massachusetts Medical Board the past 10 years of Malpractice History by the Malpractice Carrier. This doesn't sound like a big issue on the surface but it is. Often Carriers go out of business and their records are destroyed. If this has happened, the Massachusetts Board of Medicine will sit on the application until the records are located or found. No exceptions. We once had a physician with Zero Claims and a Closed Carrier apply to the Massachusetts Medical Board. It took 2 years to locate the receivership who had the records in a storage facility in Texas. The Carrier was based in Pennsylvania before closing. We obtained the required letter 1 month before the Receivership in Texas shredded the files.</p>
<p>For International Medical School Graduates, Massachusetts adds additional burdens. A number of forms and documents have to be submitted by the Medical School to validate that their program is equivalent to U.S.A. based schools. These can be difficult to obtain from the Medical Schools. As such it delays the process further.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Massachusetts Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Massachusetts Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqhb6ob0">Additional Massachusetts Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>Applications with the Massachusetts Medical Board have a 6 month expiration time period from the date they are completed. The typical reason for delay with most applications concerns the certification of Malpractice History. All Physicians must have the malpractice company, insurance agency, or risk management office directly verify their coverage history for the past 10 years preceding the date of the application. The Massachusetts Medical License will not be issued until the entire 10 year time period prior to the application is accounted for by the Malpractice Carriers.</p>
<p>All mail to the Massachusetts Medical Board has to be sent via Courier or Registered Mail. Loss of Mail is atrocious with the Massachusetts Medical Board and can cause significant delays. Licensure times vary from 2 to 5 months.</p>