---
title: Kansas
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Verifications</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certification</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Disciplinary Board Action Report</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 + attempt limit on Step 3 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>800 SW Jackson<br />Lower Level-Suite A<br />Topeka, KS 66612<br />Phone: (785) 296-7413<br />Fax: (785) 296-0852</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.ksbha.org/\">www.ksbha.org</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: 3+
usmle: '10'
---

<p>With the Kansas Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Kansas Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Kansas Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Kansas since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 30 Kansas License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Kansas Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Our experience with Kansas is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 60-115 day mark Once the files are deemed complete by the Kansas Medical Board, the Kansas Medical License is typically issued within a week. The Kansas Medical Board is not a difficult board to deal with if problems exist with the application. When the Kansas Medical License Application is complete, a Board Appearance is usually not required.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Kansas Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Kansas Medical Board. Within 2 to 3 1/2 months of the submission, the license will typically be issued. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqdu9430">Additional Kansas Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>The Kansas Medical Board is a finely tuned oiled machine. Mail is hardly ever lost. The Kansas Medical Board Staff are helpful and professional. Updates are easy to obtain. They are a pleasure to work with. It is because of their professionalism and accessibility that allows for the Kansas Medical License to be issued before the 90 day mark (which is the average medical license time frame).Kansas does not offer a Temporary License but it typically is not needed.</p>