---
title: Utah
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>FCVS Packet</li>\r\n<li>Employment Letter for Temporary License</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>State Medical Licenses (all)</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit - All Steps of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit - USMLE (10 if MD/PhD)</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>2 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>PO Box 146741<br />Salt Lake City, UT 84114<br />Phone: (801) 530-6628<br />Fax: (801) 530-6511</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://dopl.utah.gov/\">www.dopl.utah.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '2 years'
pgtig: '2 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7 or 10 (MD/PhD)'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Utah Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 4 1/2 months for the issuance of a Utah Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Utah Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Utah since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 25 to 35 Utah Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Utah Medical Board the Utah Medical License is issued. The Utah Medical Board will not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The Utah Medical Board is a Mandated FCVS Medical Board. In other words, you have to have the FCVS packet completed and sent to the Utah Medical Board. It is our opinion that the packet should be completed and ready to send to the Utah Medical Board before you file the application to Utah to obtain the Utah Medical License. We will cover this in more detail in another section on this page. Utah does offer a temporary license if you have a job offer.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Utah Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Utah Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9m3u3l0">Additional Utah Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Utah Medical Board has a rule in place which defies logic. They require that all applications be completed within 90 days of the filing or the Utah Medical License Application is denied by the Utah Medical Board and a report will be filed with the FSMB indicating a Board Action. This rule is peculiar and unnecessary. It creates problems for physicians which are not necessary. As such we recommend that the FCVS packet be completed before the application is filed with Utah. FCVS typically takes 2 1/2 to 4 1/2 months to complete a packet for a physician. It is plausible that FCVS will take longer than 90 days to complete their process (which is mandated by Utah) and as such will result in a Utah Board Action if the proper filing sequence is not followed. Just another reason to use MedLicense.com instead of going it alone.</p>