---
title: Mississippi
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Clinical Forms (if International)</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Insurance Verification</li>\r\n<li>All Employment / Privileges since Medical School</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>Jurisprudence Exam at the Mississippi Medical Board</li>\r\n<li>Personal Interview at the Mississippi Medical Board</li>\r\n<li>ABMS Certification</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Disciplinary Background Check</li>\r\n<li>Military Service</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit on all Steps of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>1-3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>10 year rule - SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>1867 Crane Ridge Drive, Suite 200B<br />Jackson, MS 39216<br />Phone: (601) 987-3079<br />Fax: (601) 987-4159</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.msbml.state.ms.us/SecureRedirect.nsf/RequestProcessed\">www.msbml.state.ms.us</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '1 to 3 years'
abms: 'Yes'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7'
---

<p>With the Mississippi Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 5 months for the issuance of a Mississippi Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Mississippi Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Mississippi since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 25 to 35 Mississippi License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Mississippi Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Mississippi Medical Board the Mississippi Medical License is issued after your mandatory Board Interview.</p>
<p>For International Medical School Graduates, Mississippi adds additional burdens. All employment since Medical School has to be verified by the employer to the Mississippi, irregardless of the time or location. This can be impossible under some circumstances. All International Licenses have to be directly verified to the Mississippi Medical Board. The Medical School will also be required to submit a form and transcripts to the Mississippi Medical Board. Mississippi requires that all training overseas be directly verified. At face value it is apparent that Mississippi really doesn't want International Physicians to apply for a license in Mississippi. They have exceeded the Arkansas Medical Board in making an arduous process almost insurmountable.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $599. Due to the arduous process, MedLicense.com cannot provide discounts for the Mississippi Process.. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Mississippi Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Mississippi Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce999vd90">Additional Mississippi Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>Applications with the Mississippi Medical Board have a 6 month expiration time period from the date they are completed. Mail loss with the Mississippi Medical Board is excessive. This can delay the process. The Mississippi Medical Board does not grant waivers or exemptions to its' posted PGY and USMLE requirements. A mandatory Board Interview is required for all Physicians. At the interview you will take the Open Book Jurisprudence Examination. There is no need to study for this. They will give you the book to use to look up the answers.</p>