---
title: Missouri
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Undergraduate College Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>All Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG CVS Report</li>\r\n<li>Fifth Pathway and ECFMG Exam Chart (if 5th Pathway)</li>\r\n<li>All State and National Exams (USMLE/FLEX/NBOME/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Insurance Verification (if you have claims)</li>\r\n<li>5 year Privileges</li>\r\n<li>FSMB Disciplinary Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit on all Steps of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule - SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>3605 Missouri Blvd.<br />P.O. Box 4<br />Jefferson City, MO 65109<br />Phone: (573) 751-0098<br />Fax: (573) 751-3166</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"https://www.pr.mo.gov/healingarts.asp\">www.pr.mo.gov/healingarts.asp</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7'
---

<p>With the Missouri Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 to 4 months for the issuance of a Missouri Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Missouri Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Missouri since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 45 to 65 Missouri License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Missouri Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Once the files are deemed complete by the Missouri Medical Board the Missouri Medical License is issued typically 1 to 3 weeks later.</p>
<p>Recently the Missouri Medical Board has switched to an online check list system. On face value this would seem to speed up the process. However, due to what seems a reduction in licensure staff at the Missouri Medical Board, mail is not processed in a timely manner and some mail seems to be lost after being received at the Missouri Board. Emails and calls to the Board are often unanswered. The online checklist is not always accurate concerning the items that have been delivered to the Missouri Medical Board.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Missouri Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Missouri Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce99ql3a0">Additional Missouri Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>Applications with the Missouri Medical Board have a 6 month expiration time period from the date they are completed. Mail loss with the Missouri Medical Board can be excessive. This can delay the process.</p>