---
title: Oregon
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Dean's Letter</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Medical School Form</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>Employment and Privileges past 10 years</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>All Internships/Residency/Fellowships</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG/5th Pathway</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>4 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE (if Board Certified)</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>Yes - 10 year rule or SPEX</li>\r\n<li>CME Waiver available for SPEX</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>1500 SW 1st Ave., Suite 620<br />Portland, OR 97201<br />Phone: (971) 673-2700<br />Fax: (971) 673-2670</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.oregon.gov/OMB/Pages/index.aspx\">www.oregon.gov/OMB</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'Yes - Waiver if ABMS and 150 CME Hrs in 3 years'
step3: '3 or 4 w/Board Certification'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Oregon Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a Oregon Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Oregon Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Oregon since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 35 to 45 Oregon Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the Oregon Medical Board the Oregon Medical License is issued. The Oregon Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Oregon Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Oregon Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9g4kpg0">Additional Oregon Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>The Oregon Medical Board has an extensive process. Unique to the Oregon process is their MPA/DEA Examination. The physician has to complete and return this open book test on prescribing and Jurisprudence Rules. The Oregon Medical Board is intrusive into the Physicians practice plans. A physician who will be practicing Telemedicine will not be granted a Full Active License by Oregon. The Oregon Medical Board will only grant that physician a Telemedicine License and visa versa. Telepathologist have not been categorized as of yet by the Oregon Medical Board. Telepathologist can practice <a href="../../services/telemedicine-licensing/telepathology-licensing">Telepathology</a> without a Medical License in Oregon as long as there is no direct patient Contact. <a href="../../services/telemedicine-licensing">Telemedicine</a> and <a href="../../services/telemedicine-licensing/teleradiology-licensing">Teleradiology</a> is regulated and licensed by the Oregon Medical Board.</p>