---
title: 'New Jersey'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form</li>\r\n<li>Internship, Residency, and Fellowship verifications</li>\r\n<li>Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>AMA or AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>Employment and Privileges past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>Malpractice Verification past 5 years</li>\r\n<li>National or State Examination Scores</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>5 attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit - USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads (if before 07/2003)</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for USA Grads (if after 07/2003)</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 183<br />Trenton, NJ 08625<br />Phone: (609) 826-7100<br />Fax: (609) 826-7117</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.njconsumeraffairs.gov/#bme5\">www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/medical.htm#bme5</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year if before 07/03, 3 years if after 07/03'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: '5'
usmle: '7'
visible: false
---

<p>With the New Jersey Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months for the issuance of a New Jersey Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician New Jersey Medical Board. Our firm has licensed Physicians in New Jersey since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 40 to 55 New Jersey License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the New Jersey Medical Board the New Jersey Medical License is issued. The New Jersey Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Licensing times for New Jersey typically run between 2 1/2 to 4 months depending on the Physician, time of year, and reviewer assigned to the Physicians file. It is advisable for the Physician to travel to New Jersey to complete the LiveScan process through Sagem Morpho if the license is needed in a hurry. Fingerprint cards typically take 6 to 12 weeks to run whereas the Livescan process takes days.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the New Jersey Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and New Jersey Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9cq4it0">Additional New Jersey Medical Board Info:</h2>
<p>If a physician has Malpractice Claims then the application has to go to the Malpractice Review Committee before being cleared to be processed by a Licensure Analyst. Until your file is assigned to a Licensure Analyst, your application cannot be deemed complete. A similar process is in place for negative issues related to Educational, Licensure, Employment, and Personal History. This includes Leave of Absences, Probations, Board Actions, Disciplinary Actions, and Arrests. In the case of "yes" answers of this nature, a full review by the Credentialing Committee is needed. The Committee is suppose to meet once a month. When they do not meet on schedule, it delays the process.The New Jersey Medical Board can take up to 3 months for the Credentialing committee to meet and review the malpractice claim information or negative information.</p>