---
title: 'New York'
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Medical School Transcripts and Form if Domestic</li>\r\n<li>All PGY Training if Domestic</li>\r\n<li>FCVS Packet if International</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses (past/present)</li>\r\n<li>3 Physician References - Some Applicants</li>\r\n<li>National or State Examination Scores if Domestic</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>No attempt limit Step 3 of the USMLE</li>\r\n<li>No year limit- USMLE or 10 years if (Md/Phd)</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 year PGY for International Grads</li>\r\n<li>No 10 year rule or SPEX required</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>89 Washington Avenue<br />2nd Floor, West Wing<br />Albany, NY 12234<br />Phone: (518) 474-3817 Ext. 560<br />Fax: (518) 486-4846</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.nysed.gov/licensed-professionals/\">http://usny.nysed.gov/professionals/</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'No'
step3: None
usmle: None
---

<p>With the New York Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 45 to 90 days for the issuance of a New York Medical License for Domestic Graduates from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician New York Medical Board. International Graduates will take from 2 to 9 months depending on the Status of the FCVS Packet. Our firm has licensed Physicians in New York since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 100 to 135 New York Medical License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. Once the files are deemed complete by the New York Medical Board the New York Medical License is issued. The New York Medical Board does not require a Physical Interview.</p>
<p>The New York Medical Board has one of the slower Mail Systems in the USA. Only Illinois and Michigan rival the inefficiency of the New York State Education Department. When a certification arrives, irregardless of the delivery method, the Medical Board will not receive and log in the certification for 2 to 8 weeks depending on the current incoming mail load and time of year. The busiest time of the year for New York and other Medical Boards is from May to August. This is due to the mass of applications which are filed by Residents who are graduating or seeking to moon light in New York. Because of this the minimum time frame for the issuance of a New York Medical License runs around 45 days. Very few applications for Domestic Graduates surpass the 90 day mark from the point of filing with MedLicense.com.</p>
<p>International Graduates are a different story. Why? Because the New York Medical Board mandates the use of FCVS to verify a physician's Medical School and Post Graduate Training. FCVS typically takes 3 to 9 months to set up a packet for International Graduates. FCVS no longer directly verifies International Medical Schools. They have contracted this out to the ECFMG. Unfortunately the FCVS/ECFMG process for the International Medical School cannot be expedited. Basically it works like this: Once the packet is submitted to FCVS, FCVS will typically submit the request to the ECFMG to verify the physicians Medical School Degree and Transcripts 30 days after the order and required forms are received. The ECFMG then submits the forms and request directly to the Medical School. No one is allowed to contact the ECFMG to check the status of the request. If the School does not respond, then the ECFMG will submit another request to the School. After 30 more days, the same process is repeated. (Einstein's definition of Insanity). The only way to expedite this is to have someone call, email, or go to the Medical School's Dean's office (if the school is not based in the Caribbean) to push the school to respond to the ECFMG request. Outside of this, the ECFMG will fail in its' efforts, FCVS will then submit the physician's packet to the New York Medical Board without the direct certification of the Medical School. Then the New York Medical Board will require that the Physician submit the New York Medical Board Form to the Medical School to be completed along with an official copy of the Medical School Transcripts. Unfortunately when the physician gets to this point, 4 to 6 months have past. Our goal is to push the Applications back to FCVS from the verifying sources. The "non-FCVS" Verifications are typically obtained/delivered to the New York Medical Board within 2 to 4 weeks of the submission of the Medical License Application to the New York Board.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the New York Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and New York Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9djc280">Additional New York Medical Board Information:</h2>
<p>New York Medical Board requires that you complete a Board approved CME Course in "Child Abuse Recognition". Our clients are provided an online directory of Companies which provide this service. The New York Medical Board is one of a few Medical Boards which do not run State Medical License Verifications. This actually makes sense because any negative information reported by a License Verification is going to be the same information reported by the FSMB Board Action Report, which is run by all State Medical Boards. The License Verification is actually unnecessary and causes unnecessary delays in the process.</p>
<p>MedLicense.com treats the FCVS process with New York as a separate licensure process, however our service fee includes both processes. Both processes are run independent of each other. Because of this, physicians who have been mandated to use FCVS require double the work load for MedLicense.com when compared to those who have not. Treating this as such allows for a more expedited process.</p>
<p>The New York Medical License requires that the physician have in place USA Citizenship or a Green Card. Without these, the physician cannot apply for a full unrestricted Medical License. The New York Medical Board will allow the physician to obtain a 3 year limited license which is restricted to an underserved facility/location. This limited license can be renewed for one additional 3 year term. During this time, the physician will need to obtain USA Citizenship or a Permanent Resident Card (Green Card).</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1ce9e0j4j1">New York Medical Board Update:</h2>
<p>U.S. Court of Appeals Decision on Litigation Involving 13 Professions that Require U.S. Citizenship or Permanent Lawful Residence for Licensure: Please be advised that in accordance with the decision of the United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, in Dandamudi v Tisch, No. 10-4397- CV, 2012 WL 2763281 (July 10, 2012), we will consider applications for licenses from individuals who would otherwise be barred from licensure by statutory requirements of citizenship or permanent residency, in one the following professions: Medicine However, please be advised that the period for seeking further review from the U.S. Supreme Court has not lapsed.New York lost the appeal. The US Supreme Court is going to decide whether or not to take the Case. If the Court does not then NY will have to waive its' Green Card or Citizenship Requirement.Right now you can apply. You have a window of opportunity if you do not have a Green Card or Citizenship.</p>