---
title: Georgia
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Med School Transcripts</li>\r\n<li>Internship/Residency/Fellowship Forms</li>\r\n<li>All State Med Licenses</li>\r\n<li>All National Examination Scores (USMLE/FLEX/NBME)</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>3 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>ECFMG Certification</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>3 attempt limit- USMLE Step 3</li>\r\n<li>7 year limit- USMLE, 9 year limit if Md/PhD</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for International Grads if Medical School is approved by the Medical Board of California</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for Internatioal Grads if Medical School is NOT APPROVED by the Medical Board of California</li>\r\n<li>State Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>No SPEX Exam Requirement</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>2 Peachtree Street, NW<br />36th Floor<br />Atlanta, GA 30303<br />Phone: (404) 656-3913<br />Fax: (404) 656-9723</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.medicalboard.georgia.gov/\">www.medicalboard.georgia.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '1 or 3 years. 1 year if Med. Sch. approved by California. 3 years if Med. Sch. not approved by California.'
abms: 'No'
step3: '3'
usmle: '7 or 9 (Md/PhD)'
visible: false
---

<p>The Georgia Medical Board has a standard licensure process. However, due to internal issues with employee turn over, the Georgia Medical Board is experiencing extended licensure time frames. Their process should take between 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 months from the time the application is filed to the date where the licese is issued. However as of 4/26/2017 licensing is running 4 to 8 months. A temporary license is available once the GA Medical Board has acknowledged receipt of all required Applications. The temporary license will allow the physician to practice while awaiting the full board meeting at the beginning of each month. There is a temporary license available but because of the way it is structured, very few physicians are able to utilize it. The Temporary Georgia Medical License is only issued after the file is complete. The Temporary is only issued after the State sends written notice to the physician that the file is complete. Then the physician has to file the temp application with payment. This cannot be filed before the letter is received. Then the temporary license is issued a week or so later. By this time, the meeting has arrived and the license is issued. So the Temporary is very rarely utilized with the GA Med Board. All files have to be deemed complete 2-3 weeks before the Board meeting to be placed on the agenda.</p>
<p>For Physicians with negative information, State Actions / Arrests / Disciplinary Actions (Excluding Malpractice), Georgia has tightened their approval process some what over the past 12 months. For Physicians with significant issues, we can recommend a Leading Licensure Attorney who specializes in Licensure and Disciplinary Actions with the GA Med Board. Our attorney will not handle the administrative of the licensure process. She will provide author your statements, deal with the Board Management, advise the physician concerning requests and issues with GA.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdq8421l0">Additional Georgia Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>MedLicense.com can move the GA Medical License process through very quickly. The Board Members are typically accessible and the Board processes applications quickly. There is not a Mandatory Board Appearance Requirement. Fingerprint Background checks are not required. Georgia has a streamlined process and verifies the Physician's Core Credentials.</p>