---
title: Louisiana
licenserequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Completed FCVS Packet</li>\r\n<li>2 Physician References</li>\r\n<li>AMA/AOA Profile</li>\r\n<li>All State Medical Licenses</li>\r\n<li>NPDB-HIPDB Report</li>\r\n<li>Board Certification Medical Society Verification</li>\r\n<li>Fingerprint Cards/Criminal Background Check</li>\r\n</ul>"
examrequirements: "<ul>\r\n<li>Examinations 75% +</li>\r\n<li>4 attempt limit on Step 2, 3 of USMLE</li>\r\n<li>10 year limit- USMLE</li>\r\n<li>1 year PGY for USA Grads</li>\r\n<li>3 years PGY for International Grads State</li>\r\n<li>Exam Accepted if Pre-1975</li>\r\n<li>Yes - SPEX Exam Requirement (call for details)</li>\r\n</ul>"
contactinformation: "<p>P.O. Box 30250<br />New Orleans, LA 70190<br />Phone: (504) 568-6820<br />Fax: (504) 568-6880</p>\r\n<p><a href=\"http://www.lsbme.la.gov/\">www.lsbme.louisiana.gov</a></p>"
pgtdg: '1 year'
pgtig: '3 years'
abms: 'Yes'
step3: '4-step 2 & 3'
usmle: '10'
visible: false
---

<p>With the Louisiana Medical Board, MedLicense.com is averaging 3 to 5 months for the issuance of a Louisiana Medical License from the submission of the application to the Medical Board to the issuance of the Physician Louisiana Medical License. Our firm has licensed Physicians in Louisiana since April 2000. In an average year, MedLicense.com will handle between 20 to 30 Louisiana License Applications. We understand the process and what needs to be completed to have your application finalized. MedLicense.com knows when and how to submit the Applications and in what order to help insure that the Louisiana Medical Board doesn't lose verifications. Our experience with Louisiana is such that we can push the process through and even see licensure at the 90 - 150 day mark. Once the files are deemed complete by the Louisiana Medical Board the Louisiana Medical License is issued after the mandatory Physical Interview.</p>
<p>Whether you are a USA Graduate or a Graduate of a Foreign Medical School, our process can move this arduous process through within a time period that will meet you needs. Your involvement in the process is kept to a minimum, with MedLicense.com handling the vast majority of the process. The fee for our services is a one time payment of $569 (if you are practicing) or $469 (if you are in training) per State Process. Our packet is shipped to you after a 5-10 min consultation. Sign, notarize, and proof your application packet and then return it to MedLicense.com with the requested copies, photos, and addendums. Then MedLicense.com will forward the completed packet to the Louisiana Medical Board. Then the certification process begins along with the required follow up with the third parties and Louisiana Medical Board. All that you have to do is start the process with MedLicense.com.</p>
<h2 id="mcetoc_1cdqf9t220">Additional Louisiana Medical Board Licensing Information:</h2>
<p>Louisiana offers a <a href="../../services/telemedicine-licensing">Telemedicine License</a> but it is not extended to many specialties (i.e. Pathology). The Telemedicine License does not grant a waiver to their SPEX Requirements. Most State Medical Boards which offer a Telemedicine License do so for the reason of allowing Experienced Physicians who have been practicing 20+ years to be able to practice without taking the SPEX Examination. Unfortunately Louisiana does not have this same philosophy. Their Telemedicine License is more concerned with the regulation of Interstate Medicine than to grant waivers to experienced physicians to the SPEX examination.</p>